# UniMoVib
A unified interface for molecular harmonic vibrational frequency calculations. It was initially written in Fortran 77 during 2014 and 2015, but its ancient predecessor has been started since 2009. After being rewritten in Fortran 90 in the spring of 2017, UniMoVib has been released as a stand-alone program.

## Latest Version
Version 1.2.0 (Jan/28/2018).

1. Calculate atomic IR charges of planar and linear molecules. Reference: A. Milani, M. Tommasini, C. Castiglioni, [Theor. Chem. Acc. 131, 1139 (2012)](https://rd.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00214-012-1139-5).
2. Read vibrational normal modes directly from the data file (Gaussian only). It can significantly save memory and speed up the calculation for big molecules.
3. Construct an approximate Hessian matrix from the force constants & Wilson's B-matrices of internal coordinates.

## Features

1. Calculate harmonic vibrational frequencies and (optional) I.R. & Raman intensities from Hessian, coordinates, and other related data generated by quantum chemistry programs or by the user manually. Nearly 30 quantum chemistry programs have been supported.
2. Calculate atomic IR charges of planar and linear molecules. Reference: A. Milani, M. Tommasini, C. Castiglioni, [Theor. Chem. Acc. 131, 1139 (2012)](https://rd.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00214-012-1139-5).
3. Analyze point group of geometry and irreducible representations of normal modes in full symmetry.
4. Thermochemistry calculation uses the point group in full symmetry, and the results are printed in Gaussian-style.
5. Save a Molden file for animation of normal modes.
6. Set up isotopic masses, temperature, pressure, scale factor and/or experimental frequencies, and so on.
7. Can be used as a third party module for frequency and thermochemistry calculations in a quantum chemistry program.
8. Interface to [LocalModes](https://github.com/catco-smu) for the local mode analysis (e.g. force constants of chemical bonds, bond angles, and so on).

### To be done:

1. An interface between UniMoVib and the quantum chemistry program [BDF](http://182.92.69.169:7226/).
2. Symmetrize normal modes for open-shell systems.
3. Ring coordinates of D. Cremer et. al.
